# Learning Path 2 - Lab 2 - Exercise 6 - Validate alert nofications and simulated attacks

This lab included two exercises in which you configured Microsoft 365 to create alert notifications (Exercises 4 and 5). Both exercises generated an email notification, which have to be validated to ensure the alerts and simulated attacks are working properly. 

For each of these exercises, it could take up to 15 minutes for the system to create its corresponding email. Rather than having you wait up to 15 minutes to receive the email at the end of each those exercises, (which is 30 total minutes of wait time, you were instructed to proceed to the next exercise and validate the emails in this final Lab 6 exercise. By this time, hopefully all emails for these two exercises have been generated and you will not have to endure any wait time.

**Note:** The process of generating the email that's associated with each alert and simulated attack should have started when you completed its corresponding exercise. Hopefully, enough time has elapsed from when you finished the prior exercises until you reached their respective validation task in this exercise so that the email is already generated and you don't have to wait for it. If necessary, when you're looking at the respective user's Inbox in each task below, periodically select the **Refresh** icon to the left of the URL address if you're still waiting for a particular email.    


### Task 1 – Validate the Mailbox Permission Alert

In Lab 2, Exercise 4, you configured an alert designed to notify Lynne Robbins when FullAccess permissions are granted to any mailbox within Adatum. You tested this alert by changing the FullAccess permission on Alex Wilber’s mailbox by granting Joni Sherman FullAccess to his mailbox. This activity should have triggered the alert policy that you created, which should have sent an alert notification email to Lynne Robbins’ mailbox. In this task, you will log into LON-CL2 as Lynne Robbins and verify whether she received this email. 

1. ‎Switch to **LON-CL2**. On **LON-CL2**, you should be signed into the machine as the local **administrator** (lon-cl2\admin) account. Select the **Microsoft Edge** icon in the taskbar, maximize the window (if necessary), and then enter the following URL in the address bar: **https://outlook.office365.com**

2. In the **Pick an account** window, if Lynne Robbins account (**LynneR@xxxxxZZZZZZ.onmicrosoft.com**) appears in the user list, then select it now; otherwise, select **Use another account** and sign in as **LynneR@xxxxxZZZZZZ.onmicrosoft.com** (where xxxxxZZZZZZ is the tenant prefix provided by your lab hosting provider). In the **Enter password** window, enter the same **Microsoft 365 Tenant Password** provided by your lab hosting provider for the tenant admin account (i.e. the MOD Administrator account) as Lynne's password and select **Sign in**.

3. In Lynne's Outlook mailbox, you should hopefully see two emails that arrived today that were automatically sent by the Alerts notification system (**Office365Alerts@microsoft.com**). The first of these two emails should be the one that was generated by the mailbox permission alert that you created in Exercise 2. The purpose of the email is to inform Lynne that Holly Dickson has made a Mailbox permission change. <br/>

4. The email contains a **View alert details** button that you will select to display details on the alert that was generated. When testing this lab, this button did not seem to work if you opened the email. However, when you viewed the contents of the email in the preview pane in Outlook, then the button worked. So select the email in the Inbox, and then in the preview pane that displays the body of the email, select the **View alert details** button. Selecting this button opens the **Microsoft Defender** portal in a new tab.

5. The **Microsoft Defender** portal displays the **Alerts** window, and it automatically opens the **Mailbox permission change** pane for this alert activity that triggered the email. Scroll down through the **Mailbox permission change** pane and review all the information for this activity. When you are done, select **Close** to close the pane.

6. In your Edge browser, close the **View Alerts - Microsoft Defender** tab. Leave Lynne's **Outlook** tab open, as you will use that in the next task.

7. Leave your Edge browswer opon on the LON-CL2 VM. Do not close Lynne's mailbox as you will access it again in the next task.

You have just successfully tested a mailbox permission alert that sent an alarm message on granting FullAccess to a user mailbox.


### Task 2 – Validate the  SharePoint Permissions Alert

In Lab 2, Exercise 5, you configured an alert designed to notify Lynne Robbins when a user is added as a site collection administrator for a site collection. To test this alert, you added Alex Wilber as a site collection admin to the global SharePoint Communication site. This activity should have triggered the alert policy that you created, which should have sent an alert notification email to Lynne Robbins’ mailbox. In this task, you will validate whether Lynne received this alert notification email.

1. On **LON-CL2**, you should still be logged into **Outlook on the web** as **Lynne Robbins** from the prior task. 

2. In Lynne's Inbox, you should hopefully see two emails that arrived today that were automatically sent by the Alerts notification system (**Office365Alerts@microsoft.com**). The second of these two emails should be the one that was generated by the SharePoint Permissions alert that you created in Exercise 3. The email contains a **View alert details** button that you will select to display details on the alert that was generated. When testing this lab, this button did not seem to work if you opened the email. However, when you viewed the contents of the email in preview pane in Outlook, then the button worked. So select the email in the Inbox, and then in the preview pane that displays the body of the email, select the **View alert details** button. Selecting this button opens the **Microsoft Defender** portal in a new tab.

3. The **Microsoft Defender** portal displays the **Alerts** window, and it automatically opens the **Add user as a site collection administrator** pane for this alert activity that triggered the email. Scroll down through this pane and review all the information for this alert activity. When you are done, select **Close** to close the pane.

4. Leave your LON-CL2 VM open as you will access Lynne's mailbox in a later task in this exercise.

You have now successfully tested the SharePoint alert to monitor site collection admin permissions on SharePoint sites. 


# End of Lab 2
